this is what I avoided seeing last time
I guess I'll be more explicit about it
now and you want to know why I avoided
saying it because I'm deeply
uncomfortable and we've created a
situation where people can't talk about
this without being decried as not a real
leftist and just a baby and an idealist
and a liberal oh no I don't fine with
that I'm totally good with that yeah
mass murder cool yeah let's keep talking
about it yeah I'm totally fine I'm not
saying everyone in leftist spaces or
everyone who's into capital our
revolution is being toxically masculine
but I am saying that we've created
spaces unconsciously or not where people
are forced to be the metaphorical cool
girl which typically means accepting
capital our revolution as the only
rational way forward and often indulging
people in jokes or serious talk about
lining everyone up who is profited off
the system against the wall there's a
definite revolutionary bravado in many
of these spaces that seems to valorize
spectacular eyes violence more than
morph em coded activities of building
relationship in trust and this is not to
say that there's something inherent in
this white man people are thinking that
I'm saying a white male bad bad bad bad
no there's nothing in hearing most of my
best comrades are the most fiercely
compassionate empathetic humble deeply
humble sis white dudes but my biggest
issue is that most of these sis men
typically would come at me not from a
position of humility and wonder and hey
I'm curious why do you think that this
framing is patriarchal I'd like to learn
more and let's have an open dialogue
about this
it's listen you here's all the reasons
that you're wrong and you need to be
quiet you need to just shut up now I
have many friends who are non men who
are Marxist Leninist or trots or
whatever and they may disagree with me
but they would never come at me with
that kind of a posturing they would
never do that that is such a violent way
of speaking to you another human and of
engaging with them you have to just sit
there and then join the posturing and be
like no no I don't find with that I'm
totally good with that yeah mass murder
cool yeah let's keep talking about it
yeah I'm totally fine and from that
standpoint you're not open to learning
this isn't just an intellectual exercise
all of these systems exist within us and
they are perpetuated through us we have
to examine deeply what it is within us
that is yearning for that stuff even
jokingly in my last video I had people
saying you know the climate strike or
mass protests or Food Not Bombs these
are not revolutionary movements right
for people critiquing the yellow vest in
France well that's not a revolutionary
movement didn't didn't overthrow
capitalism did it well no [ __ ] didn't
know [ __ ] these aren't gonna overthrow
capitalism but the deepening
environmental crisis the austerity
crisis crushing people making life
unlivable automation increasing putting
people out of work I mean there are
going to be so many resistance movements
and people getting fed up and that all
of that together coupled with the fact
that capitalism is eating itself I think
will coalesce to force a revolutionary
change let's all go to the lobby let's
all go to the lobby let's all go to the
lobby to get ourselves a treat the rural
areas tend to be a lot more conservative
a lot more libertarian a lot more
fascist so yeah what's that going to
mean for organizing going forward how
are we going to organize in these rural
areas we should be focusing on that
especially if we can't actually make our
livings in the city anymore maybe by the
time we do clash with the state it will
be much weaker and maybe actually people
in the millet
or the police will look around and say
hey everyone has come together and has
done a pretty good job building this new
society that looks a lot better than
what the state and capital is offering
so maybe I refuse to shoot unarmed
civilians who have done nothing wrong
maybe not probably not we're probably
like how many times do I have to repeat
in my video that things will likely not
be nonviolent
when I say defense community defense
against a militaristic state I don't see
how people thought that I was saying
that this would be passive and
nonviolent we don't actually have to
rehabilitate images of Stalin or even
Lenin to get people on board all we have
to do is convince them that change is
coming and let's get out ahead of this
and build the world that we want to take
care of us all it will be way easier to
get people here excited and energized
about building the new then it will by
telling them yeah come with us and get
organized into a militia with the
ultimate goal of violently usurping the
state the state that happens to be
directly adjacent to the most powerful
military the world has ever seen I'm
sorry but the days of a scrappy vanguard
taking their muskets into battle are
over this is what I avoided saying last
time I guess I'll be more explicit about
it now and you want to know why I
avoided saying it because I'm deeply
uncomfortable and we've created a
situation where people can't talk about
this without being decried as not a real
leftist and just a baby and an idealist
and a liberal so a capital our
revolution to me is one where there is a
vanguard party that organizes the masses
potentially to meet people's needs in
the here-and-now but very often will
decry that most things are not
revolutionary and not the main goal the
main goal is overthrowing the government
so this party organizes the workers to
overthrow the government and then sets
themselves up in that
government that seat of power but you
know whatever it's it's democratic
because everyone is participating all
the way down and then they subsequently
centralize create you know central
planning and maintain a police and
military force in order to crush
dissidents and revisionists less they
rise up and destroy the revolution the
sparkling drinks are just dandy the
chocolate bars in the candy so let's all
go to the lobby to get ourselves a treat
let's all go to the lobby to get
ourselves a true
I am not throwing anyone under the bus
who has earnestly engaged in
revolutionary struggle that is not the
point
of my videos so I have never been
convinced that this is the route to full
communism the victory of the Chinese
Communists in the civil war in 1949
brought the country's so-called
liberation it was also the occasion for
Mao Zedong to lay out his utopian vision
and in carrying out this vision the
party so it is said took a chaotic state
in hand and out of a shattered citizenry
forged a new China Frank Dakota is a
historian at the University of Hong Kong
and in his new book the tragedy of
liberation he shatters this
interpretation of the early years of the
People's Republic he joins me now to
discuss his book Frank 1949 was the year
when the Chinese Communists won the
Civil War and the year when Mao Zedong
stood on the Channel moon gate and said
that China had stood up it's known in
China as the liberation and in a way a
sort of new China began from that date
both the Communist Party and some in the
West consider the next few years from
sort of 1949 to 1956 as a kind of golden
age for the Communist Party and for
China a sort of golden Prelude before
the disasters of the Great Leap Forward
and the Cultural Revolution what is your
view and how did you present your
conclusions in your new book right well
of course it is if you compare it to the
tens of millions of people who will
starve beaten to death from 1958 to 62
and does look rather good but the
reality is that violence was not so much
a byproduct of the revolution in 1949 it
was the revolution and on the basis of
very detailed archival evidence I've
reached the conclusion that the period
the Civil War and the period right up to
1957 the first years of that so-called
Golden Age really are an era of broken
promises systematic violence and
calculated terror
never been convinced that this is the
route to smashing patriarchy indeed I
think patriarchy lives on and it is kind
of patriarchal Mao did the same thing as
Lenin Lenin and the Bolsheviks promised
every disaffected group what they wanted
most and this is what mal did he
promised the land to the farmers better
working conditions for workers
protection of private property for
entrepreneurs freedom of speech for
intellectuals and one by one every
single promise is broken between 1949
and 1957 and I am not convinced I've
never been convinced that we would
actually be taking on the US military
head-on which is basically what we would
have to do in the West
Mao sets a quote in 1950 after this
horrendous land reform that claimed
about 1.5 to 2 million so-called land
olds killed which expropriated 10
million people run from 50 to 51 as a
campaign of terror during which now
mandates that one per thousand ought to
be killed in provinces like gray Joey
goes up to three per thousand the
communists really split these villages
destroy the moral values social bonds
that keep them together most of all
oblige these farmers to have blood on
their hands implicate them in the murder
of a carefully targeted minority in
other words land reform really is an act
of violence in which enough blood has to
be shed in order for a return to the old
order to become impossible once once
these these poor farmers have
participated in mass denunciation
struggle meetings and participated in
the ritual killing of a number of them
they to fear the return of the
Nationalists I am not convinced I am yet
to be convinced and to be very frank I
think it would be better if some people
would just admit that their end goal
their end goal is the centralized state
with the socialist military and the
socialist police and in central planning
not as the transition phase
between that and full communism but as
the final resting place framing the
revolution this way makes it out to be
yet another war game in one single
document
I found written by the Minister of
Justice Laurie Ching he adds up the
victims of the campaign of terror in six
provinces comes up with the total of
three hundred and 1800 that's just for
one year of terror and six provinces
this report is sent to mountains at all
in total I guess about four to five
million people killed in these early
years look if the capital our revolution
is popping off you know that I will be
there but I will be majorly side-eyeing
especially when it comes to whatever
comes next
[Music]